Approximate time to complete: 3 minutes

---
## Goal

Find the password in a file, where the alphabet letters are rotated by 13 positions. 
Hint: Rot13 on Wikipedia

---
## Steps taken

1. **Checking the given resources**: This time, there was an extra link below the description of the goal, leading to a Wikipedia article on ROT13 (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ROT13). After getting an overview of what it is, it was pretty clear that ROT13 is the encoding used on the file contents. I also found the following code: 
   ```
   $ # Map upper case A-Z to N-ZA-M and lower case a-z to n-za-m
   $ tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m' <<< "Pack My Box With Five Dozen Liquor Jugs"
   ```
   This code excerpt encodes the string on the right using ROT13. As the alphabet letters A-Z and a-z are 26, decoding would work exactly the same. My plan was therefore to decode the file contents using the `tr` command I found.
2. **Trying out the command**: As planned, I executed my decoding command. As I had a file, I could simply pipe the file contents into the `tr` command:
   ```
   cat data.txt | tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m'
   ```
   This worked exactly as it should, and I obtained the password for `bandit12`.

---
## New insights and lessons learned

- **A simple cipher**: Some cryptography lectures started by introducing the first, simplest examples of ciphers. Those often included replacing each letter of the alphabet by another letter. This task showed one variant of that, where letters are simply rotated by a number of positions. According to the article, ROT13 is a special case of the Caesar cipher, which proves my connection. It is very interesting to see how `tr` can help in encoding and decoding such strings.
- **The command `tr`**: Doing a bit of research on the command, I found that `tr` can generally be used for translating or deleting characters. I found examples of it being used to delete whitespace, capitalizing strings, and removing all non-digit characters. It is highly useful to keep in mind that the command can do these things, as it might prove useful in later challenges.

---
