Approximate time to complete: 25 minutes

---
## Goal

Find the password in a file, that is a hexdump of a repeatedly compressed file.

Hint: Create a temporary directory in `/tmp`.

---
## Steps taken

1. **Creating a temporary directory**: First, I created a temporary directory. The hint also gave a command `mktemp -d` to do this with, which I first checked the man page of.
2. **Reverting the hexdump**: As given in the task description, the file is a hexdump. Using the given source in the description (Wikipedia article on hexdump) I found that the program `xxd` can be used. By checking the `man` page of the program, I was able to construct the command `xxd -r data.txt` to revert the operation.
3. **Uncompressing the file**: As I knew from the description, the file had been repeatedly compressed. However, as I did not know which compression algorithms were used, I checked the different programs given as hints: `gzip`, `bzip2`. This provided me with a first program that I could use, which was `zcat`. This surprisingly was the correct one for the first decompression step. At this point, I remembered that there exists a `file` command to check files for their type. Trying this on the obtained file, I saw which decompression to use next. In summary, I used `zcat`, `bzip2 -k -d` and `tar -xf` to decompress step-by-step.

---
## New insights and lessons learned

- **Many new commands**: To solve this task, I had to consult several `man` pages and new commands, along with a Wikipedia article. Unlike previous tasks, there were many steps needed to get the password. Thankfully, I remembered the `file` command to check the files for additional information, which proved extremely helpful to figure out which compressions I had to undo. Overall, the number of new commands I learned from this task was pretty high.
- **Using temporary directories**: It was very interesting that there exists such an easy way of creating temporary files or directories. I will definitely keep that in mind, not just for future tasks but also for personal use, as it helps to keep things organized.

---
## Additional notes

- This task was a lot more time-intensive than previous tasks, as there was a lot of researching, trying out and piecing things together.

---
