Approximate time to complete: 3 minutes

---
## Goal

The password is stored in the file `/etc/bandit_pass/bandit14`, which can only be read by the user `bandit14`. Tip: Using an SSH private key, you can obtain the necessary rights. `localhost` might be helpful.

---
## Steps taken

1. **Locating the file**: Before starting with the task itself, I checked the file stored in the given path to make sure I know what I am working with.
2. **Finding and using the SSH private key**: The SSH private key was located directly in `bandit13`'s home directory. I opened the `ssh` help and obtained the flag needed to enter a private key file (`-i`). By using the command `ssh bandit14@localhost -i sshkey.private` I was already close. However, I was informed that port 22 was not allowed. Therefore, I added the port number `2220` that is used to log in to every machine, and was logged in as `bandit14`.
3. **Opening the file**: Using `cat`, I opened the file and found a password. At this point, it was unclear what the password can be used for, as I was already logged in as `bandit14`. Therefore, I immediately continued with the next level.

---
## New insights and lessons learned

- **SSH Private Keys**: Locating SSH private keys can be extremely helpful to get access as another user. The main application I see is obtaining more rights (e.g. admin rights) after having entered a network on another user's machine. If this user has SSH keys stored, you might be able to use them to log in as another user. From a defender's perspective, it shows that securing private keys is very important, even though the user might be trustworthy. Ideally, such keys are stored separately, using additional authentication methods. Some password managers are also able to store SSH keys.

---
